1. Java language. Features of the language.
here we have some of javas features:
Platform Independent
Portable
Architectural Neutral
Object-Oriented

It is used for:
Mobile applications (specially Android apps)
Desktop applications
Web applications

Java is an object oriented language which gives a clear structure to programs and allows code to be reused
also Java is close to C++ and C#, it makes it easy for programmers to switch to Java or vice versa


2. Development tools. JDKs and JREs.

JDK(Java Development Kit) is used to develop Java applications. 
the JDK is a package of tools for developing Java-based software, 
1
JRE(Java Runtime Environment)
 the JRE is a package of tools for running Java code.


3. Primitive data types in Java.

Primitive types are the most basic data types available within the Java language. There are 8: boolean, byte, char, short, int, long, float and double



4. Working with variables. Declaration. Initialization. Assignment.

Variables are containers for storing data values.

In Java, there are different types of variables, for example:

String - stores text, such as "Hello". String values are surrounded by double quotes
int - stores integers (whole numbers), without decimals, such as 123 or -123
To create a variable, you must specify the type and assign it a value:

Syntax
type variableName = value;

String name = "John";
System.out.println(name);


String firstName = "John ";
String lastName = "Doe";
String fullName = firstName + lastName;
System.out.println(fullName);


5. Branching and looping instructions.


Branching is conditions. If condition then do something; else do something else

Looping is running a block of code till a condition is no longer satisfied


6. Operators and expressions in Java. Features of calculation, priorities of operations.



7. Math functions in the Java standard library. class java.lang.Math.


Math library in Java has many functions
min, max, sin, cos, tan


8. Formatted output of numeric data.

formatted output java

use printf

 printf() is a method can be used to print formatted output in java.



'
